Flow Documentation (#16)
optakt/optakt.github.io: content/knowledge_base/flow/cadence/resources.md

# Resources

Resources are types that can exist only in one location at a time.

> At the end of a function which has resources in scope, resources must either be **moved** or **destroyed**.

Reviewer: So what "location" does mean in that context?

Reviewer 2: For me personally I think it's okay as it is, since it's described in more detail below. But I was also reading about resources beforehand, so a fresher perspective is more valuable :)

Author: Yeah.

After it was _destroyed_, the resource can no longer be used.
_Moving_ a resource means either assigning it to a different constant or a variable, passing it as an argument to another function, or returning it from a function.

> After the resource was moved - e.g. assigned to a const, the previous reference to the resource is invalid and cannot be used anymore.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the resource was moved — e.g. assigned to a `const`, the previous reference to the resource is invalid and cannot be used anymore.
```

> To make the resource behaviour clear and explicit, the prefix `@` must be used in all type annotations dealing with resources, and the resource movement is denoted with the _move_ operator - `<-`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To make the resource behavior clear and explicit, the prefix `@` must be used in all type annotations dealing with resources, and the resource movement is denoted with the _move_ operator — `<-`.
```

We use `behavior` rather than `behaviour` in our docs since we favor US spelling. I should add a note about it in the markdown style guide, my bad :p

```rust
// Resource definition.
pub resource SomeResource {

>     // The resource has a single field - the `value` integer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    // The resource has a single field — the `value` integer.
```

    pub var value: Int

>     // Define the resource initialized

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    // Define the initialized resource.
```

Author: Yeah, agree.

    init(value: Int) {
        self.value = value
    }
}

// Resource is created using the `create` keyword.
// Note that the const `a` has type of `@SomeResource`.
let a: @SomeResurce <- create SomeResource(value: 2)

// Resource is moved from const a to const b.

> // `a` can no longer be used to access the resource

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// `a` can no longer be used to access the resource.
```

let b <- a

// Resource is destroyed.
destroy b

// Neither `a` or `b` can now be used to access the resource as it was destroyed.
```

> When a resource is returned from a function, the function caller still has the responsibility to use the returned resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a resource is returned from a function, the function caller receives the resource in its scope and has the control to use it.
```

Reviewer: Okay, I think I understand now :)

```rust
// This function is invalid as it does not use the resource.
pub fun invalid_use(r: @SomeResource) {
}

// This function uses the resource by moving it to a new const.
// This new const is used by being returned from the function.
pub fun use(res: @SomeResource): @SomeResource {
    let moved <- res
    // Note that the return call still uses the `move` operator.
    return <-moved
}

// Create a new resource.
let a: @SomeResource <- create SomeResource(value: 3)

// Move the function return value to a new const.
// The const `a` can no longer be used to access the resource.
let result <- use(res: <- a)

// Destroy the resource.
destroy result
```

Resource can have a destructor, which is called when the resource is destroyed.

```rust
pub resource SomeResource {

    destroy() {
        // Some logic here, e.g. decrement the variable indicating the number of resources in existance.
    }
}
```

> Since the resource variables cannot be assigned to, there are two options to replace the values of resource variables - the _swap_ operator (`<->`) and the _shift_ operator (`<- target <-`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since the resource variables cannot be assigned to, there are two options to replace the values of resource variables — the _swap_ operator (`<->`) and the _shift_ operator (`<- target <-`)
```

```rust
pub resource SomeResource{}

var x <- create SomeResource()
var y <- create SomeResource()

// Swap the resources.
x <-> y

// Alternatively, use the shift operator.
// The shift operator moves the resource from `x` to `oldX`.
// At the same time, `x` receives the value of the new resource.
let oldX <- x <- create SomeResource()

// oldX still needs to be used.
```

Resources have an implicit unique identifier in the form of the predeclared public field `uuid` of type `UInt64`.

> This field is incremented on each resource creation, and will never be the same for two resources, even if some of them were destroyed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This field is incremented on each resource creation, and can never be the same for two resources, even if some of them were destroyed.
```
